# forest_fires_prediction_using_regression
Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) has gained attention because it has been useful in warning about disasters. Predicting natural disasters like hailstorm, fire, rainfall etc. by WSN are infrequent and stochastic. This is an important topic of research. Detection of those disasters should be fast and accurate as they'll cause damage and destruction at an outsized scale. In this paper, comparison of varied machine learning techniques like SVM, regression, decision trees, neural networks etc. has been done for prediction of forest fires. The projected approach during this paper presents how regression works best for detection of forest fires with high accuracy by dividing the dataset. Fast detection of forest fires is accomplished during this paper by taking less time as compared to other machine learning techniques.

One of the most tremendously occurring disasters in recent times is forest fires. Due to these wildfires, tons of acres of forest area are becoming destroyed. The significant reasons that lead to the occurrence of forest fires are warming due to the increase in the average temperature of the earth, and human negligence. Dynamic Integrated Model of Climate and therefore the Economy (DICE) indicates that the economy will lose about $23 trillion within the next 80 years thanks to the change in climate. In Africa, South America, Southeast Asia, and New Zealand, forest fires occur thanks to human factors like husbandry of animals and agriculture. Nowadays, there are various technologies for fire modelling to predict the spread of fires, like physical models and mathematical models. These models be contingent on data collection during forest fires, simulation, and lab experimentations to specify and predict fire growth in many regions. Recently, simulation tools have been used to predict forest fires, but simulation tools faced some problems like the accuracy of input file and simulation tool execution time. Machine learning may be a sub-branch of AI (AI) to find out computers aspect. Machine learning are often divided into two classes: supervised, unsupervised and reinforcement. In supervised learning, a supervisor is existed to offer insights to the training algorithm on how a choice or an action is bad or good. In supervised learning, the entire the info set is labelled completely. Supervised machine learning algorithms are as rectilinear regression, Support Vector Machine (SVM), Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) and decision trees. In unsupervised algorithm, the info set isn't labelled. This leads that the algorithm must define the labels. The structure of the info set and therefore the relationship between the features are going to be learned by the algorithm. Unsupervised machine learning procedures are as k-means clustering and Self-Organizing Map (SOM). In reinforcement learning, the training algorithm gets punished just in case "> just in case of a wrong action and gets rewarded in case of correct action.
